All ducks have highly waterproof feathers.
When the duck dives underwater, the downy underlayer of feathers stay completely dry.
Ducks are omnivorous and will eat grass, aquatic plants, insects, seeds, fruit, fish, crustaceans and other types of food.
Ducklings younger than 10 days tend to swim and walk as a group, always close to their mother, to avoid the attack of predators.
Most duck species are monogamous for a breeding season but they do not often mate for life.
Ducks seek out new mates each year, choosing the healthiest, strongest, best mate who can help them pass on their genes to a new duckling generation.
Ducks are outgoing, social animals who feel most at ease when they're in a larger group of other ducks.
Ducks are birds. Ducks are also called 'waterfowl' because they are normally found in places where there is water like ponds, streams, and rivers.
Ducks can live up to 20 years, depending on the species and if well cared for.
The production of eggs is affected by daylight. When there is more daylight, the ducks will lay more eggs.
Farmers use artificial lighting so that the ducks have about 17 hours of light a day to produce eggs efficiently.
Duck eggs will hatch within 28 days normally.
The Muscovy duck eggs take about 35 days to hatch.
The mother duck will keep her brood of ducklings together to protect them from predators.
Ducks have been domesticated as pets and farm animals for more than 500 years.
All domestic ducks are descended from either the mallard or the Muscovy duck.
Mallards are easy to crossbreed with other types of ducks.
Mallards often hybridize with all types of ducks at local ponds.
Ducks can sleep with one eye open.
Ducks can turn off half their brain while keeping the other half alert for predators.
Ducks will only fully rest both halves of their brain if they are feeling safe & protected either in the middle of a large group of ducks or in a safe location.
A baby duck is called a duckling, a male is a drake and a female is a hen or duck.
A group of ducks is called a raft, a team or a paddling.
Ducks live in both fresh water and sea water and can be found on every continent except for Antarctica.
Ducks have a special counter current blood vessel system in their feet/legs so their feet will not feel cold.
Ducks can swim in icy water and be undisturbed by walking in snow & chilly puddles.
Most ducks have a "simultaneous wing molt" typically in spring or early summer, where they lose all their primary feathers at once.
There is about 20-40 days a year a duck cannot fly due to molting.
Male ducks molt twice a year. Once for mating season and once after mating season when females make their nest.
Male ducks' spring coat is called their "nuptial plumage" which is bright and colorful and their winter coat is called "eclipse plumage" which is drab and brown.
Male ducks have a reputation of very aggressive mating that can sometimes even result in injury or death.
In some species of ducks, a female will bond with a male for one season – but she will still be harassed into mating by other males.
The female can protect herself from insemination from an unwanted male by sidelining sperm and ejecting it later.
Male ducks are one of the few bird species that have an external phallus.
Male ducks' phalli are long, corkscrew shaped tentacle that retracts into their body when not mating – sometimes they can grow to be as long as their entire body
Male ducks' phalli completely fall off in autumn only to grow again in the spring.
The more rivals in a mating season, the longer a duck's phallus might grow, to better their chances of offspring.
Gender change in ducks is rare, but happens as often as 1 in every 10,000 birds.
When a male bird turns female, it will molt all of it’s colorful plumage, and can develop the louder female quack and display nesting habits.
Female ducks that turn male will molt into the colorful male plumage including a drake curl tail feather, and can develop the raspy drake quake & drake mannerisms and could even fertilize eggs.
Almost all ducks have two ovaries, but only the left one functions.
White ducks are white their whole lives, but dark-colored ducks slowly develop white patches in their feathers as they age.
Wetlands, such as ponds, streams, lakes and lagoons, and woodland areas, such as swamp forests and stands of mangrove trees, are natural habitats for ducks.
There are approximately 120 different species of ducks.
Ducks are birds in the family Anatidae. They are closely related to swans and geese, which are in the same family.
A wild duck can live 20 years or more. Domestic ducks typically live 10-15 years or less in captivity.
The world record is a Mallard Drake that lived to a ripe old age of 27 years.
Ducks range in size from the very large eider duck which up to 71 centimeters (28 in.) long, weight up to 3 kilograms (6.6 lb.), and has a 1-meter (41-in.) wingspread, to the Eurasian teal which is about 28 centimeters (11 in.) long, has weight about 340 grams (12 oz) and a wingspread of 59 centimeters (23 in.).
Ducks have webbed feet which allows them to paddle and swim in the water more smoothly.
Ducks have very good vision and see in color.
Ducks have three eyelids. The top and bottom as well as a third that is found on the side of the eye. It is clear and acts much like goggles.
Ducks keep their feathers clean by preening. They do this by putting their heads in funny positions and putting their beaks into their body.
Ducks are very social animals who feel most at ease when they’re in larger groups of other ducks.
Ducks spend their days looking for food in the grass or in water, and they sleep together with their paddlings at night.
Dabbling ducks feed on the surface of water or on land, or as deep as they can reach by up-ending without completely submerging.
Ducks are often classified by the way they feed, either as dabbling ducks or diving ducks.
Diving ducks and sea ducks forage deep underwater. To be able to submerge more easily, the diving ducks are heavier than dabbling ducks, and therefore have more difficulty taking off to fly.
Some duck species, mainly those breeding in the temperate and Arctic Northern Hemisphere, are migratory; those in the tropics, however, are generally not.
Ducks normally migrate between 60 and 1,200 meters (200 and 4,000 feet) in the air, but are capable of reaching far greater heights.
A jet plane over Nevada once struck a Mallard at an altitude of 6,400 meters (21,000 feet). This is currently the highest recorded flight of any duck.
he breeding ground will usually be the place where the female duck was hatched. The female duck builds her nest with grass or reeds or even in a hole in a tree.
The male duck will guard their territory by chasing away other couples.
Once the female lays 5 – 12 eggs, she will sit on her eggs to keep them warm so that they can hatch into ducklings. The male ducks on the other hand, will be with the other male ducks.
The two most famous ducks in history are Donald and Daffy Duck.
The mother duck will keep her brood of ducklings together to protect them from predators.
Ducklings are able to fly within 5-8 weeks. Their feathers develop really fast.
Because of their wide distribution through many types of habitats, ducks have many predators. Some of these include hawks, coyotes, foxes, raccoons and large fish.
Females of most dabbling ducks make the classic "quack" sound, but despite widespread misconceptions, most species of duck do not "quack".
In general, ducks make a wide range of calls, ranging from whistles, cooing, yodels and grunts.
A common urban legend is that a ducks quack does not echo. This has however, been proven to be false.
The Guardian (British newspaper) published an article on Monday 16 March 2015 advising that ducks should not be fed with bread because it damages the health of the ducks and pollutes waterways.
In 2002, psychologist Richard Wiseman and colleagues at the University of Hertfordshire, UK, finished a year-long LaughLab experiment, concluding that of all animals, ducks attract the most humor and silliness.
Ducks have many economic uses. Their feathers, particularly their underlying 'down' feathers, are used in many products, while the white Pekin duck is the most common variety raised for eggs and meat.
Paradise Shelducks of New Zealand often have one mating partner for life.
Careful buying duck from local chinese restaurants because often it is dry and tasteless.
Ducks are birds.
Ducks are also called ‘Waterfowl’ because they are normally found in places where there is water like ponds, streams and rivers.
Ducks are sometimes confused with several types of unrelated water birds with similar forms, such as loons (an aquatic bird found in many parts of North America and northern Europe) or grebes (freshwater diving birds) and coots (medium-sized water birds which are members of the Rail Bird family).
Ducks are smaller than than their relatives (swans and geese). Ducks also have shorter necks and wings and a stout body.
Female ducks can also camouflage themselves in their nests and also protect their young.
There is a special gland called the ‘Preen Gland’ near the ducks tail. This tiny gland produces oil which the duck uses to coat its feathers.
Ducks pick up oil from their preen gland with its head and beak, and then smears it all over its body to make the outer feathers waterproof.
The ducks mouth is called a beak or bill. It is usually broad and flat and has rows of fine notches along the edge called ‘lamellae’. The lamellae helps the duck to grip its food so that it will not slip off.
Ducks' beaks come in different shapes and sizes. The shape of the beak and body determines how the duck will hunt for its food.
Ducks usually molt before migrating.
Ducks love water.
Some species of ducks migrate or travel longs distances every year to breed.
Ducks usually travel to warmer areas or where the water does not freeze so that they can rest and raise their young.
Shovler ducks have broad beaks and sift their food for insects, nails and seed from the mud.
Dabblers usually have shiny coloured patches on their wings.
Domestic ducks are dabbler ducks.
Usually dabbling ducks stick their tails in the air and stretch their heads into the water to reach their food.
The female duck builds her nest with grass or reeds or even in a hole in a tree.
The breeding ground for a new generation of ducks will usually be the place where the female duck was hatched.
When the ducks fly, they usually do so in a ‘V-shaped’ or a long line.
A hen makes a loud QUACK sound while the drake has a raspy, muffled call.
Touching a duckling does not prevent the mother duck from taking care of it. It is however best to leave ducklings alone so as not to scare the mother duck away or accidentally injure them.
Duck eggshells have tiny holes (pores) that allow it to breathe. A hen’s eggs can have 7500 pores, most found at the blunt end of the egg. Respiratory gasses as well as water vapour travel through these pores allowing the egg to breathe.
Baby ducks are precocial meaning they are born with their eyes wide open, with a warm layer of down and are not fully dependant on their parents for food. Ducklings are ready to leave the nest within hours of hatching.
A ‘clutch’ is the total number of eggs laid by one bird during one nesting session. Clutch size affected by hereditary and environmental factors. When food is abundant, birds lay more eggs.
A brood is the total number of hatchlings, or ducklings in a clutch.
All ducks are gay for Jacoby.
